So now that we've got some dynamic module loading
and code splitting working in our favour,
we need to consider actually what we're bundling up
in our payloads that are going over the wire.
And there's a really good article from almost a year ago now
published.
I believe he is one of the primary contributors to Next.js.
He's talking about working out
when a module is actually being included into your bundle,
and he goes on to kind of explain
that in this example of code,
where the individual has used get initial props,
and they are saying if it's on the server side,
then require this fake module.
The problem is when webpack runs, it's pausing all the code,
and it sees that faker is needed
both on the server side bundle and the client side,
so faker comes down over the wire in both cases.
And so he proposes a few solutions,
and it's not so much the solutions
that I want to talk about.
I want to talk about how to identify this problem.
So you can use this webpack analyzer.
There's a few examples here.
This is an older example of how to get to it,
but there's now a plugin just like the CSS plugins
for the webpack analyzer.
So you have to instal this extra bundle, a bundle analyzer,
and then what you need to do is grab this code,
and I'm gonna mix it with my CSS plugin as well.
So I have to make a few adjustments.
So I'm just gonna grab this, copy and paste it
into my next dotcom fig.
Okay?
And this doesn't seem to be needed,
so I'm just going to get rid of it entirely.
And notice now I've obviously got two module.exports.
Now, that's not what we really want.
What I need to do is take this section very carefully
and then put it into the inside of this bracket, I believe.
So...
basically what get passed into withCSS
is the output of withBundleAnalyzer,
and in withBundleAnalyzer,
I need to pass in the entire object.
I think that's wrong.
Something like that.
Nope, that's still not quite right.
I've got an extra bracket, I think maybe.
Okay.
So I'm just gonna check if that works.
I'm gonna do npm...
Npm run dev.
Just to check if my server actually still runs
and it renders the CSS.
Course that looks good.
Then the example that she goes on to say, you can use yarn.
I'm using npm in my example.
If yarn works for you, then use this.
I'm gonna run a bundle analyzer for both,
but the other change I'm gonna make is in the config,
and I'm gonna say...
openAnalyzer equals true.
Just gonna launch the analyzer right away,
and I want to launch into this browser,
so I'm gonna run npm analyse both,
and it will launch the server first in the browser,
and then it will pull up the client as well.
There you go.
So, what we have here is
visualised all the packages that webpack is gonna bundle up.
So looking at my client side, 'cause that's the one
that's most important to me at the moment,
this is what I'll be looking at when the page loads.
Now, the largest package here is this bundle.
It's this one, the Notes bundle, 604 K.
So, geez, at 200 K, it's still fairly large,
but it's because we're including
all of our codemirror down here.
Now, we've already identified that in our code
or in the code, and we're lazy loading this separately.
Otherwise it would be loaded as the main bundle
every time someone comes to this for the first time.
I've killed the server by accident.
Maybe they just want to look at the overview.
Maybe they want to look at how to contact,
and they don't want to download
this 600 K decompressed codemirror bundle.
And if they don't load the Notes at all,
say they logged out, they don't load the Notes at all,
they never have to download this payload.
So they'll be downloading this much smaller payload,
32 K compressed,
and this common bundle will go with every request as well,
and then you can see the other pages.
So this is the session page down here,
so like three K for the individual sessions.
What have we got here?
This is the index page, another three K.
Some very small pages here.
This is the CSS that's used.
I think we might be able to see somewhere the About page,
maybe.
Yep, the About page is way down there in the corner.
Super small.
So, oh, going the wrong way.
That looks pretty good to me.
The one thing that does kind of pop out is the fact that
react-dom appears twice.
Now, there's no way that I can load this
without this being in here,
so I might want to kind of manually tweak this.
I don't know quite how to do that at the moment.
I think it takes an extra bit of knowledge of webpack
to understand how to take this out.
But that's the only thing that kind of jumps out at me.
I don't think anything else has got that being used.
No, it doesn't seem like it.
Okay, so let's go look at server.
So one thing I would expect this not to be in the server.
So I'm not sure what that means.
Plus one module, I think this is a module it can't name.
Is that right?
So we've got nine K, 11 K.
Huh, frustratingly, on the server side,
everything's a lot smaller.
As it goes, I guess.
We've got some CSS being paused there,
and I guess nothing's happening to it.
But they look all pretty small.
I think really the focus for me
is considering the client's side
and making sure that the client's side
only has what it needs.
For instance...
Can I search all chunks?
I'm guessing that inside of common is
the fetch function that I gave it.
It must be in here somewhere, pretty small.
(mumbles to self)
Maybe not.
But on the server side,
I would expect to see somewhere in here the
Universal isomorphic on fetch.
Module suspect, this may be one of these,
kind of tucked away in here somewhere.
Yeah, so that is how to get analysis of your bundles
into Next.
This is starting to look like a bit of a mess in my opinion.
It might be worth kind of breaking it into separate files.
As long as you know you can compose these functions together
so the idea being you take the output of withBundleAnalyzer
and you just pass it into withCSS,
and you should be able to compose those options together.
As long as this is that kind of webpack-like option,
you're all good.
And has the webpack function.
So that is how to analyse what's going over the wire.
And next, let's get it actually going over the wire
onto the Internet.